About Order Management System  OMS or inventory management system. Every business is at least slightly different from the others, so it is important to tailor my inventory management to suit any business's specific needs. Here, we will discuss some of the most common inventory management techniques these are just a starting point, and you might need to try several approaches (or even mix and match) before it becomes obvious what’s right for you.  Drop-Shipping. Perhaps counter-intuitively, some businesses approach inventory management by doing away with stock altogether. Businesses who drop, ship do not hold any inventory reserves, and generally, never touch the products they sell. Rather, drop shippers enter contracts with wholesalers who handle storage, logistics, and order fulfillment. While some drop shippers are reasonably transparent, the usual practice is to conceal the fact that the business is drop, shipping by using tailored shipping information and packaging. Despite not having a warehouse with stock on hand, drop shippers still face some inventory challenges. It can be difficult to keep track of the stock that wholesale partners have on hand and to keep this information updated on many online stores. While most wholesalers use inventory software that will integrate with my own, it can sometimes be difficult to make sense of the data – if a wholesaler has 10,000 units in stock, this could either be a little or a lot depending on how many other retailers are selling that product – information that a drop shipper generally will not have.  Just In Time Inventory Just in Time inventory management involves.  In practice, businesses that implement JIT inventory run on the leanest possible inventory, including not holding safety stock. Although this approach can seem alarming, holding very low inventory levels ensures that only the minimum amount of capital is tied up in stock at any one time – this is particularly useful for growing businesses, who can reinvest more unused capital back into the business. JIT also minimizes inventory-carrying costs such as warehouse rent and insurance. JIT should use inventory management software to keep track of every detail, big or small.  Bulk Inventory Methodology Buying stock in bulk can provide an illusion of safety – it is difficult to run out of inventory when a business. However, it is important to consider the potential for the stock to become deprecated, to sell slowly, and to be damaged or stolen. Bulk inventory also involves a large financial gamble; a business commits significant capital to purchase inventory, but then must store it safely. If a product moves more slowly than expected, the extra inventory carrying costs can very quickly eat into any bulk purchase discount.    ABC Categorization This inventory management methodology involves splitting all my business’ stock on hand into three broad categories: •	High-value stock is held in small quantities. •	Moderate value stock held in moderate quantities. •	Low value, bulk stock.  Category C Stock generally requires relatively little active management (keeping inventory carrying costs in mind, of cause).   Category A  Stock, on the other hand, requires a lot of attention. Not only are the financial risks higher, but the risk of running out of stock is also high as a small number of orders can clear my inventory. Intuitively, managing   category B  Stock is somewhere in between. It is worth noting that these techniques can overlap – as ABC categorization shows, different management methodology will often work better for certain products, even within the same business.  A few key aspects:  [1]Types of inventories. So, you know what type of inventory is where and can have full visibility over it.  •	Forecasting. So, you know how much stock is needed to satisfy demand over an upcoming time period.  •	Purchasing. So, you know when and how to create purchase orders to re-order new stock.  •	Storage. So, you know how much of each inventory item can be suitably housed, and where to send it.   •	Analysis. So, you can use metrics to make more informed decisions about your inventory as time goes on.  •	Techniques. So, you can quickly and efficiently book in, put away, pick, pack and ship inventory as and when needed at my various locations.  •	Tracking. So, you have visibility on where exactly my inventory is as well as additions (purchases) and subtractions (sales), to give as close to a live-stock figure as possible. . •	Accounting. So, you can properly record my inventory on financial documents.   OMS Inventory management is the process of ordering, handling, storing, and using a company’s non-capitalized assets – If We are taking an inventory. For some of the businesses, this involves raw materials and components, while others may only deal with finished stock items ready for sale. Either way, inventory management all comes down to balance - having the right amount of stock, in the right place, at the right time. And this guide will help you achieve just that management. In this Project, I am Implementing Creating Order and Order Handling. Shipping, Return Request. this area’s in the My Module. 
